_pages/2024thematicalseminar.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Thematical Seminar
permalink: /pages/2024thematicalseminar
description: Thematical Seminar 2024 at the University of Fribourg
---

...More to come on this, website being updated...

<!--
The goal of this thematic seminar is to provide students with the opportunity to present a mathematical topic in a seminar format.
This cycle of seminars will focus on sub-Riemannian geometry.

Sub-Riemannian geometry is a rich field of study that connects differential geometry, metric geometry, analysis on metric spaces, and the theory of groups and Lie groups. 
Sub-Riemannian geometry has applications in control theory and appears as limit of Riemannian spaces and as asymptotic cones of finitely generated groups, among other contexts.

The primary reference for this course is "Lecture Notes on Sub-Riemannian Geometry" by Enrico Le Donne. An online version is available at [this link](https://sites.google.com/view/enricoledonne/)
An updated version of these lecture notes will be shared with students during the course.

A background in differential geometry is required for this course. While familiarity with Lie group theory is helpful, it is not mandatory.

The seminars will primarily be conducted in English. However, presentations in German or French are also welcome.
-->

[Link to the official page](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=119185)

Commit message:

Update page on the thematical seminar.

_pages/2024thematicalseminar.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Thematical Seminar
permalink: /pages/2024thematicalseminar
description: Thematical Seminar 2024 at the University of Fribourg
---

The goal of this thematic seminar is to provide students with the opportunity to present a mathematical topic in a seminar format.
This cycle of seminars will focus on sub-Riemannian geometry.

Sub-Riemannian geometry is a rich field of study that connects differential geometry, metric geometry, analysis on metric spaces, and the theory of groups and Lie groups. 
Sub-Riemannian geometry has applications in control theory and appears as limit of Riemannian spaces and as asymptotic cones of finitely generated groups, among other contexts.

The primary reference for this course is "Lecture Notes on Sub-Riemannian Geometry" by Enrico Le Donne. An online version is available at [this link](https://sites.google.com/view/enricoledonne/teaching/lecture_notes).



<!--
The goal of this thematic seminar is to provide students with the opportunity to present a mathematical topic in a seminar format.
This cycle of seminars will focus on sub-Riemannian geometry.

Sub-Riemannian geometry is a rich field of study that connects differential geometry, metric geometry, analysis on metric spaces, and the theory of groups and Lie groups. 
Sub-Riemannian geometry has applications in control theory and appears as limit of Riemannian spaces and as asymptotic cones of finitely generated groups, among other contexts.

The primary reference for this course is "Lecture Notes on Sub-Riemannian Geometry" by Enrico Le Donne. An online version is available at [this link](https://sites.google.com/view/enricoledonne/)
An updated version of these lecture notes will be shared with students during the course.

A background in differential geometry is required for this course. While familiarity with Lie group theory is helpful, it is not mandatory.

The seminars will primarily be conducted in English. However, presentations in German or French are also welcome.
-->

[Link to the official page](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=119185)
