---
layout: page
title: Partial Differential Equations
permalink: /pages/2025PDE
description: Introduction to Partial Differential Equations in Fribourg in 2025
---

This semester, I will be teaching a course on Partial Differential Equations (PDE), based on L. C. Evans' "Partial Differential Equations". 
The course is intended for third-year undergraduate and master's students.

The course is structured around the study of the three most important differential equations:
the Laplace, heat and wave equations.
These three equations have been the source of numerous mathematical developments, both pure and applied.
We will commence by learning the classical methods for deriving properties of their solutions.
Subsequently, we will delve into a more advanced approach, studying distributions, Sobolev spaces and weak solutions. 
These theoretical instruments will enable us to introduce new methods for investigating PDE.


Weekly schedule:
Monday and Tuesday, 13:15 - 15:00, in PER 23, Room 0.05
	
Codes: [SMA.03554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122181)
and [SMA.04554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122182)

For more information, please write me at the address
<sebastiano.nicolussigolo@unifr.ch>

## Material

I give you access to [my notes](https://github.com/Seba272/2025-01-09-IntroductionToPDE_public).
It is a [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) repository: you can clone or fork the repository, or you can download the source files.
**Danger**: These are NOT lecture notes: these are my personal notes, on which I work to prepare the lectures, and they will keep changing quite a lot.
You should have a similar document for yourself.
It is not necessary to use LaTeX, or a computer: paper and pen can work equally well.
However, it is necessary that you write all proofs yourself: add and subtract details, polish your text until every single step is justified. 
Dig into your uncertainities!

* [Exercises 1](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-01.pdf) (updated on the 18th of Feb)
* [Exercises 2](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-02.pdf) (updated on the 26th of Feb)

## Diary

### Week 1

#### Monday 17/02
* Intro to the course.
* Intermezzo of calculus: Dominated convergence theorem; Integration with parameter.
* The homogeneous and the nonhomogeneous transport equation
* Intermezzo of calculus: Characterization of open sets with $$C^k$$ boundary.

#### Tuesday 18/02
* Definition of (outer) unit normal
* Surface measure on submanifolds of $$\mathbb R^n$$
* Coarea formula and integration in polar coordinates
* LaHa: Introduction to Laplacian, Laplace equation and Poisson equation
* LaHa: Definition of Harmonic function
* LaHa: Examples of harmonic functions: affine functions, harmonic polynomials, real and imaginary parts of holomorphic functions
* LaHa: Symmetries of Laplacian
* LaHa: Finding spherically symmetric harmonic functions on $$\mathbb R^n\setminus\{0\}$$.
* LaHa: Definition of fundamental solution of the Laplace equation

### Week 2

#### Monday 24/02
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: properties
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: solution to the Poisson equation equation
- Intermezzo: Spherical and ball averages (in abstract)

#### Tuesday 25/02
- LaHa: Mean-value formulas
- LaHa: Strong Maximum principle for harmonic functions
- LaHa: No: This is an exercise: Positivity of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Uniqueness for Poisson equation
- LaHa: Smoothness of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Estimates on derivatives of harmonic functions (only stated for now)
- LaHa: Analyticity of harmonic functions (proof not completed yet)


