_pages/2025PDE.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Partial Differential Equations
permalink: /pages/2025PDE
description: Introduction to Partial Differential Equations in Fribourg in 2025
---

This semester, I will be teaching a course on Partial Differential Equations (PDE), based on L. C. Evans' "Partial Differential Equations". 
The course is intended for third-year undergraduate and master's students.

The course is structured around the study of the three most important differential equations:
the Laplace, heat and wave equations.
These three equations have been the source of numerous mathematical developments, both pure and applied.
We will commence by learning the classical methods for deriving properties of their solutions.
Subsequently, we will delve into a more advanced approach, studying distributions, Sobolev spaces and weak solutions. 
These theoretical instruments will enable us to introduce new methods for investigating PDE.


Weekly schedule:
Monday and Tuesday, 13:15 - 15:00, in PER 23, Room 0.05
	
Codes: [SMA.03554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122181)
and [SMA.04554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122182)

For more information, please write me at the address
<sebastiano.nicolussigolo@unifr.ch>

## Material

I give you access to [my notes](https://github.com/Seba272/2025-01-09-IntroductionToPDE_public).
It is a [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) repository: you can clone or fork the repository, or you can download the source files.
**Danger**: These are NOT lecture notes: these are my personal notes, on which I work to prepare the lectures, and they will keep changing quite a lot.
You should have a similar document for yourself.
It is not necessary to use LaTeX, or a computer: paper and pen can work equally well.
However, it is necessary that you write all proofs yourself: add and subtract details, polish your text until every single step is justified. 
Dig into your uncertainities!

* [Exercises 1](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-01.pdf) (updated on the 18th of Feb)
* [Exercises 2](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-02.pdf) (updated on the 26th of Feb)
* [Exercises 3](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-03.pdf) (updated on the 5th of March)
* [Exercises 4](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-04.pdf) (updated on the 19th of March)
* [Exercises 5](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-05.pdf) (updated on the 19th of March)
* [Exercises 6](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-06.pdf) (updated on the 26th of March)
* [Exercises 7](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-07.pdf) (updated on the 2nd of April)

## Diary

### Week 1

#### Monday 17/02
* Intro to the course.
* Intermezzo of calculus: Dominated convergence theorem; Integration with parameter.
* The homogeneous and the nonhomogeneous transport equation
* Intermezzo of calculus: Characterization of open sets with $$C^k$$ boundary.

#### Tuesday 18/02
* Definition of (outer) unit normal
* Surface measure on submanifolds of $$\mathbb R^n$$
* Coarea formula and integration in polar coordinates
* LaHa: Introduction to Laplacian, Laplace equation and Poisson equation
* LaHa: Definition of Harmonic function
* LaHa: Examples of harmonic functions: affine functions, harmonic polynomials, real and imaginary parts of holomorphic functions
* LaHa: Symmetries of Laplacian
* LaHa: Finding spherically symmetric harmonic functions on $$\mathbb R^n\setminus\{0\}$$.
* LaHa: Definition of fundamental solution of the Laplace equation

### Week 2

#### Monday 24/02
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: properties
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: solution to the Poisson equation equation
- Intermezzo: Spherical and ball averages (in abstract)

#### Tuesday 25/02
- LaHa: Mean-value formulas
- LaHa: Strong Maximum principle for harmonic functions
- LaHa: No: This is an exercise: Positivity of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Uniqueness for Poisson equation
- LaHa: Smoothness of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Estimates on derivatives of harmonic functions (only stated for now)
- LaHa: Analyticity of harmonic functions (proof not completed yet)

### Week 3

#### Monday 03/03
- LaHa: Analyticity of harmonic functions (end of the proof)
- LaHa: Estimates on derivatives of harmonic functions (the proof)
- LaHa: Liouville's theorem
- LaHa: Representation formula for Poisson equation on bdd domain
- LaHa: Harnack's inequality
- LaHa: Representation formula using Green's function

#### Tuesday 04/03
- LaHa: Symmetry of Green's functions
- LaHa: Green's function of the ball
- LaHa: Uniqueness by energy methods
- LaHa: Dirichlet's principle
- Heat: Intro: homogeneous and nonhomogeneous heat equations
- Heat: Symmetries
- Heat: Examples
- Heat: Fundamental solution: def
- Heat: Fundamental solution: properties
- Heat: Solution to the Cauchy problem (first part)

### Week 4

#### Monday 10/03
- Heat: Solution to the Cauchy problem (second part: approximation of the identity)
- Heat: Solution to the nonhomogeneous Cauchy problem
- Heat: Mean-value formula (the statement only)

#### Tuesday 11/03
- Heat: Strong Max principle (with proof from Folland)
- Heat: Uniqueness on bounded domains
- Heat: Maximum principle for unbounded Cauchy problem
- Heat: Uniqueness for unbounded domains
- Heat: Uniqueness by energy methods

### Week 5

#### Monday 17/03
- Heat: Backward uniqueness by energy methods
- Wave: Intro
- Wave: Symmetries
- Wave: Examples
- Wave: Solutions in n=1: d'Alambert's formula
- Wave: Reflection method: solution for pinched string

#### Tuesday 18/03
- Wave: Finite propagation speed, by energy methods
- Wave: Uniqueness of solution, by energy methods
- Wave: Euler-Poisson-Darboux equation
- Wave: Solutions in n=3: Kirchhoff Formula

### Week 6

#### Monday 24/03
- Wave: Solutions in n=2: Poisson's Formula
- Wave: Solutions for odd and even dimension of the homogeneous equation
- Wave: Solutions for the nonhomogeneous wave equation

#### Tuesday 25/03
- Dist: Introduction to distributions
- Dist: Test functions and their topology
- Dist: Continuity of linear operators with domain the space of test functions
- Dist: definition of distribution and their topology
- Dist: functions as distributions
- Dist: measures as distributions
- Dist: Order of a distribution: characterization of a distribution
- Dist: Distributions of order 0: Radon measures
- Dist: Example: Dirac delta
- Dist: Distributions of order 1
- Dist: Example: Principal value
 
### Week 7

#### Monday 31/03
- Dist: adjoint operators
- Dist: derivatives of distributions
- Dist: product of a smooth function by a distribution
- Dist: locality
- Dist: support of a distribution

#### Tuesday 01/04
- Dist: derivatives of the dirac delta
- Dist: distributinos as derivatives of functions
- Dist: translations and inversion
- Dist: convolution of a distribution with a test function
- Dist: smooth approximation

Commit message:

Update PDE page for week 8.

_pages/2025PDE.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Partial Differential Equations
permalink: /pages/2025PDE
description: Introduction to Partial Differential Equations in Fribourg in 2025
---

This semester, I will be teaching a course on Partial Differential Equations (PDE), based on L. C. Evans' "Partial Differential Equations". 
The course is intended for third-year undergraduate and master's students.

The course is structured around the study of the three most important differential equations:
the Laplace, heat and wave equations.
These three equations have been the source of numerous mathematical developments, both pure and applied.
We will commence by learning the classical methods for deriving properties of their solutions.
Subsequently, we will delve into a more advanced approach, studying distributions, Sobolev spaces and weak solutions. 
These theoretical instruments will enable us to introduce new methods for investigating PDE.


Weekly schedule:
Monday and Tuesday, 13:15 - 15:00, in PER 23, Room 0.05
	
Codes: [SMA.03554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122181)
and [SMA.04554](https://www.unifr.ch/timetable/en/course.html?show=122182)

For more information, please write me at the address
<sebastiano.nicolussigolo@unifr.ch>

## Material

I give you access to [my notes](https://github.com/Seba272/2025-01-09-IntroductionToPDE_public).
It is a [git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) repository: you can clone or fork the repository, or you can download the source files.
**Danger**: These are NOT lecture notes: these are my personal notes, on which I work to prepare the lectures, and they will keep changing quite a lot.
You should have a similar document for yourself.
It is not necessary to use LaTeX, or a computer: paper and pen can work equally well.
However, it is necessary that you write all proofs yourself: add and subtract details, polish your text until every single step is justified. 
Dig into your uncertainities!

* [Exercises 1](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-01.pdf) (updated on the 18th of Feb)
* [Exercises 2](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-02.pdf) (updated on the 26th of Feb)
* [Exercises 3](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-03.pdf) (updated on the 5th of March)
* [Exercises 4](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-04.pdf) (updated on the 19th of March)
* [Exercises 5](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-05.pdf) (updated on the 19th of March)
* [Exercises 6](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-06.pdf) (updated on the 26th of March)
* [Exercises 7](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-07.pdf) (updated on the 13th of April)
* [Exercises 8](/assets/pdf/2025-PDE-Exercises-08.pdf) (updated on the 13th of April)

## Diary

### Week 1

#### Monday 17/02
* Intro to the course.
* Intermezzo of calculus: Dominated convergence theorem; Integration with parameter.
* The homogeneous and the nonhomogeneous transport equation
* Intermezzo of calculus: Characterization of open sets with $$C^k$$ boundary.

#### Tuesday 18/02
* Definition of (outer) unit normal
* Surface measure on submanifolds of $$\mathbb R^n$$
* Coarea formula and integration in polar coordinates
* LaHa: Introduction to Laplacian, Laplace equation and Poisson equation
* LaHa: Definition of Harmonic function
* LaHa: Examples of harmonic functions: affine functions, harmonic polynomials, real and imaginary parts of holomorphic functions
* LaHa: Symmetries of Laplacian
* LaHa: Finding spherically symmetric harmonic functions on $$\mathbb R^n\setminus\{0\}$$.
* LaHa: Definition of fundamental solution of the Laplace equation

### Week 2

#### Monday 24/02
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: properties
- LaHa: Fundamental solution: solution to the Poisson equation equation
- Intermezzo: Spherical and ball averages (in abstract)

#### Tuesday 25/02
- LaHa: Mean-value formulas
- LaHa: Strong Maximum principle for harmonic functions
- LaHa: No: This is an exercise: Positivity of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Uniqueness for Poisson equation
- LaHa: Smoothness of harmonic functions
- LaHa: Estimates on derivatives of harmonic functions (only stated for now)
- LaHa: Analyticity of harmonic functions (proof not completed yet)

### Week 3

#### Monday 03/03
- LaHa: Analyticity of harmonic functions (end of the proof)
- LaHa: Estimates on derivatives of harmonic functions (the proof)
- LaHa: Liouville's theorem
- LaHa: Representation formula for Poisson equation on bdd domain
- LaHa: Harnack's inequality
- LaHa: Representation formula using Green's function

#### Tuesday 04/03
- LaHa: Symmetry of Green's functions
- LaHa: Green's function of the ball
- LaHa: Uniqueness by energy methods
- LaHa: Dirichlet's principle
- Heat: Intro: homogeneous and nonhomogeneous heat equations
- Heat: Symmetries
- Heat: Examples
- Heat: Fundamental solution: def
- Heat: Fundamental solution: properties
- Heat: Solution to the Cauchy problem (first part)

### Week 4

#### Monday 10/03
- Heat: Solution to the Cauchy problem (second part: approximation of the identity)
- Heat: Solution to the nonhomogeneous Cauchy problem
- Heat: Mean-value formula (the statement only)

#### Tuesday 11/03
- Heat: Strong Max principle (with proof from Folland)
- Heat: Uniqueness on bounded domains
- Heat: Maximum principle for unbounded Cauchy problem
- Heat: Uniqueness for unbounded domains
- Heat: Uniqueness by energy methods

### Week 5

#### Monday 17/03
- Heat: Backward uniqueness by energy methods
- Wave: Intro
- Wave: Symmetries
- Wave: Examples
- Wave: Solutions in n=1: d'Alambert's formula
- Wave: Reflection method: solution for pinched string

#### Tuesday 18/03
- Wave: Finite propagation speed, by energy methods
- Wave: Uniqueness of solution, by energy methods
- Wave: Euler-Poisson-Darboux equation
- Wave: Solutions in n=3: Kirchhoff Formula

### Week 6

#### Monday 24/03
- Wave: Solutions in n=2: Poisson's Formula
- Wave: Solutions for odd and even dimension of the homogeneous equation
- Wave: Solutions for the nonhomogeneous wave equation

#### Tuesday 25/03
- Dist: Introduction to distributions
- Dist: Test functions and their topology
- Dist: Continuity of linear operators with domain the space of test functions
- Dist: definition of distribution and their topology
- Dist: functions as distributions
- Dist: measures as distributions
- Dist: Order of a distribution: characterization of a distribution
- Dist: Distributions of order 0: Radon measures
- Dist: Example: Dirac delta
- Dist: Distributions of order 1
- Dist: Example: Principal value
 
### Week 7

#### Monday 31/03
- Dist: adjoint operators
- Dist: derivatives of distributions
- Dist: product of a smooth function by a distribution
- Dist: locality
- Dist: support of a distribution

#### Tuesday 01/04
- Dist: derivatives of the dirac delta
- Dist: distributinos as derivatives of functions
- Dist: translations and inversion
- Dist: convolution of a distribution with a test function
- Dist: smooth approximation

### Week 8

#### Monday 07/04
- Dist: constancy theorem
- Dist: The space of smooth functions as a Fréchet space
- Dist: The space of distributions with compact support
- Dist: Convolution of a distribution with compact support and a smooth function
- Dist: Characterization of convolution operators

#### Tuesday 08/04
- Dist: Convolution of distributions, one of which has compact support
- Dist: Properties of convolutions
- Dist: Singular support
- Dist: Linear Differential operators with compact support
- Dist: Fundamental solutions
- Dist: Use of fundamental solutions
- Dist: Hypoellipticity
- Dist: Characterization of hypoellipticity in terms of the fundamental solution
- Dist: Support, and compactly supported distributions
