index.md, before:

---
layout: index
permalink: /
title: <strong>Sebastiano</strong> Nicolussi Golo

profile:
  align: right
  image: seba-1.jpg
  address: >
    <p>Dipartimento di Matematica</p>
    <p>Università di Padova</p>
    <p>Via Trieste, 63</p>
    <p>35121 Padova, Italy</p>
---
<!--
[Test Page](test)
-->

I am a research fellow (postdoc) 
at the [Department of Mathematics](https://www.math.unipd.it/en/) 
of the [University of Padova](https://www.unipd.it/) 
in Italy (EU), under the supervision of 
[Davide Vittone](https://www.math.unipd.it/en/department/people/user.php?usertype=2&user=364). 
I obtained a double PhD degree in 2017
from the [University of Jyväskylä](http://www.jyu.fi/en/) (Finland, EU) and from the [University of Trento](http://www.unitn.it/en) (Italy, EU), 
under the supervision of [Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/) and [Francesco Serra Cassano](http://www4.unitn.it/People/it/Web/Persona/PER0004233#INFO).

**Metric Geometry** and **Geometric Measure Theory**, together with  **Lie Group Theory**, are my main areas of research, with particular emphasis on problems that arise in **Geometric Group Theory**, **Analysis on Metric Spaces** or in **sub-Riemannian Geometry**.

Primarily, I study Lie groups equipped with non-Riemannian distances such as **Carnot-Carathéodory distances**. 
Motivated by the asymptotic geometry of nilpotent groups, I work on **Carnot groups**. 
In particular, I am interested in the regularity of submanifolds such as **metric spheres** and **minimal surfaces**.

If you want to know more about me, here is my [CV](/assets/pdf/SebastianoNicolussiGolo-CurriculumVitae.pdf). 
If you want to contact me, you can write me an email to <sebastiano.nicolussi@math.unipd.it>.
My ORCID ID is: [0000-0002-3773-6471](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3773-6471).

----

Special Pages
=============

* [GeA](pages/GeA): seminario di Geometria e Analisi a Padova.
*	Miniworkshop [Geometric Measure Theory in Padova](https://gmtpadova2020.frama.site).
* [Didattica](https://www.math.unipd.it/~fabio/didattica/index_didattica.html):
	"Analisi Matematica 1" per Ingegneria Meccanica, tenuto da Fabio Paronetto.
* [Latest in Geometric Analysis. Celebration of Pekka Koskela's 59th birthday](https://www.impan.pl/en/activities/banach-center/conferences/19-latest): 
	in Będlewo (Poland), 24.11.2019 - 30.11.2019
* [Sub-Riemannian Geometry and Beyond, III](https://sites.google.com/view/pisa2020):
	A gist on Lie groups in Pisa.  
	Introductory courses: 19 May 2020 - 23 May 2020; 
	[http://crm.sns.it/event/462/](http://crm.sns.it/event/462/)  
	The conference: 25 May 2020 - 29 May 2020;
	[http://crm.sns.it/event/452/](http://crm.sns.it/event/452/)  

---

Publications
============

### Preprints

<!-- -->
* "Intrinsic rectifiability via flat cones in the Heisenberg group"  
	(with A. Julia)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.09196)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4617/)]
<!-- -->
*	"Metric Lie groups admitting dilations"  
	(with E. Le Donne)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.02559/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4185/)]
<!-- -->
* "Polarised Lie groups contactomorphic to stratified groups"  
	(with A. Ottazzi)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03854/)]
<!-- -->
* "Spectral multipliers and wave equation for sub-Laplacians: lower bounds of Euclidean type"  
	(with A. Martini, D. Müller)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.02671/)]
<!-- -->
* "Quasiregular mappings between subRiemannian manifolds"  
	(with C.-Y. Guo, M. Williams)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00891/)]
<!-- -->
* "From homogeneous metric spaces to Lie groups"  
	(with M. G. Cowling, V. Kivioja, E. Le Donne, A. Ottazzi )  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09648/)]


### Published papers

0. "The Bernstein problem for Lipschitz intrinsic graphs in the Heisenberg group"  
	(with F. Serra Cassano)  
	_Calculus of Variations and Partial Differential Equations_ **58**  141  (2019)  
	[[Paper](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00526-019-1581-5)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04586/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4042/)]
<!-- -->
0. "The Besicovitch covering property in the Heisenberg group revisited"   
	(with S. Rigot)  
	_The Journal of Geometric Analysis_ 2018  
	[[Paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs12220-018-00112-z)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.04502)]
<!-- -->
0. "Some remarks on contact variations in the first Heisenberg group"  
	_Ann. Acad. Sci. Fenn. Math._ 2018  
	[[Paper](http://www.acadsci.fi/mathematica/Vol43/Golo.html)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.07358)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2928/)]
<!-- -->
0. "Regularity properties of spheres in homogeneous groups"  
	(with E. Le Donne)  
	_Trans. Amer. Math. Soc._ 2018  
	[[Paper](http://www.ams.org/journals/tran/2018-370-03/S0002-9947-2017-07038-0/)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.03881)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2794/)]
<!-- -->
0. "Topics in the geometry of non-Riemannian lie groups"  
	PhD Thesis, University of Jyväskylä, 2017  
	[[Online](https://jyx.jyu.fi/handle/123456789/55196)]
<!-- -->
0. "Asymptotic behavior of the Riemannian Heisenberg group and its horoboundary"  
	(with E. Le Donne, A. Sambusetti)  
	_Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4)_ 2017  
	[[Paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10231-016-0615-2)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.00288)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2793/)]
<!-- -->
0. "A historical account on characterizations of C^1-manifolds in Euclidean spaces by tangent cones"  
	(with F. Bigolin)  
	_J. Math. Anal. Appl._ 2014  
	[[Paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022247X13009396/)]
<!-- -->
{: reversed="reversed"}

---

Collaborators
=============
<!--
- Francesco Bigolin
- [Michael G. Cowling](https://web.maths.unsw.edu.au/~michaelc/)
- [Moon Duchin](https://mduchin.math.tufts.edu/)
- Chang-Yu Guo
- Ville Kivioja
- [Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/)
- [Alessio Martini](https://sites.google.com/site/mrtnale/)
- [Detlef Müller](http://www.math.uni-kiel.de/analysis/de/mueller/prof.-dr.-detlef-mueller)
- [Alessandro Ottazzi](https://sites.google.com/site/alessandroottazzi/)
- [Séverine Rigot](https://math.unice.fr/~rigot/)
- [Manuel Ritoré](http://www.ugr.es/~ritore/)
- [Andrea Sambusetti](http://www1.mat.uniroma1.it/people/sambusetti/andreas_webpage/home.html)
- [Raul Serapioni](http://www.science.unitn.it/~serapion/)
- [Francesco Serra Cassano](https://webapps.unitn.it/du/it/Persona/PER0004233/Curriculum#INFO)
- Ben Warhurst
- Marshall Williams
-->

Francesco Bigolin  
[Michael G. Cowling](https://web.maths.unsw.edu.au/~michaelc/)  
[Moon Duchin](https://mduchin.math.tufts.edu/)  
Chang-Yu Guo  
Ville Kivioja  
[Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/)  
[Alessio Martini](https://sites.google.com/site/mrtnale/)  
[Detlef Müller](http://www.math.uni-kiel.de/analysis/de/mueller/prof.-dr.-detlef-mueller)  
[Alessandro Ottazzi](https://sites.google.com/site/alessandroottazzi/)  
[Séverine Rigot](https://math.unice.fr/~rigot/)  
[Manuel Ritoré](http://www.ugr.es/~ritore/)  
[Andrea Sambusetti](http://www1.mat.uniroma1.it/people/sambusetti/andreas_webpage/home.html)  
[Raul Serapioni](http://www.science.unitn.it/~serapion/)  
[Francesco Serra Cassano](https://webapps.unitn.it/du/it/Persona/PER0004233/Curriculum#INFO)  
Ben Warhurst  
Marshall Williams

Commit message:

Add coarea paper in preprints.

index.md, after:

---
layout: index
permalink: /
title: <strong>Sebastiano</strong> Nicolussi Golo

profile:
  align: right
  image: seba-1.jpg
  address: >
    <p>Dipartimento di Matematica</p>
    <p>Università di Padova</p>
    <p>Via Trieste, 63</p>
    <p>35121 Padova, Italy</p>
---
<!--
[Test Page](test)
-->

I am a research fellow (postdoc) 
at the [Department of Mathematics](https://www.math.unipd.it/en/) 
of the [University of Padova](https://www.unipd.it/) 
in Italy (EU), under the supervision of 
[Davide Vittone](https://www.math.unipd.it/en/department/people/user.php?usertype=2&user=364). 
I obtained a double PhD degree in 2017
from the [University of Jyväskylä](http://www.jyu.fi/en/) (Finland, EU) and from the [University of Trento](http://www.unitn.it/en) (Italy, EU), 
under the supervision of [Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/) and [Francesco Serra Cassano](http://www4.unitn.it/People/it/Web/Persona/PER0004233#INFO).

**Metric Geometry** and **Geometric Measure Theory**, together with  **Lie Group Theory**, are my main areas of research, with particular emphasis on problems that arise in **Geometric Group Theory**, **Analysis on Metric Spaces** or in **sub-Riemannian Geometry**.

Primarily, I study Lie groups equipped with non-Riemannian distances such as **Carnot-Carathéodory distances**. 
Motivated by the asymptotic geometry of nilpotent groups, I work on **Carnot groups**. 
In particular, I am interested in the regularity of submanifolds such as **metric spheres** and **minimal surfaces**.

If you want to know more about me, here is my [CV](/assets/pdf/SebastianoNicolussiGolo-CurriculumVitae.pdf). 
If you want to contact me, you can write me an email to <sebastiano.nicolussi@math.unipd.it>.
My ORCID ID is: [0000-0002-3773-6471](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3773-6471).

----

Special Pages
=============

* [GeA](pages/GeA): seminario di Geometria e Analisi a Padova.
*	Miniworkshop [Geometric Measure Theory in Padova](https://gmtpadova2020.frama.site).
* [Didattica](https://www.math.unipd.it/~fabio/didattica/index_didattica.html):
	"Analisi Matematica 1" per Ingegneria Meccanica, tenuto da Fabio Paronetto.
* [Latest in Geometric Analysis. Celebration of Pekka Koskela's 59th birthday](https://www.impan.pl/en/activities/banach-center/conferences/19-latest): 
	in Będlewo (Poland), 24.11.2019 - 30.11.2019
* [Sub-Riemannian Geometry and Beyond, III](https://sites.google.com/view/pisa2020):
	A gist on Lie groups in Pisa.  
	Introductory courses: 19 May 2020 - 23 May 2020; 
	[http://crm.sns.it/event/462/](http://crm.sns.it/event/462/)  
	The conference: 25 May 2020 - 29 May 2020;
	[http://crm.sns.it/event/452/](http://crm.sns.it/event/452/)  

---

Publications
============

### Preprints
<!-- -->
* "Area of intrinsic graphs and coarea formula in Carnot Groups"  
	(with A.~Julia and D.~Vittone)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02520/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4635/)]
<!-- -->
* "Intrinsic rectifiability via flat cones in the Heisenberg group"  
	(with A. Julia)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.09196/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4617/)]
<!-- -->
*	"Metric Lie groups admitting dilations"  
	(with E. Le Donne)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.02559/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4185/)]
<!-- -->
* "Polarised Lie groups contactomorphic to stratified groups"  
	(with A. Ottazzi)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03854/)]
<!-- -->
* "Spectral multipliers and wave equation for sub-Laplacians: lower bounds of Euclidean type"  
	(with A. Martini, D. Müller)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.02671/)]
<!-- -->
* "Quasiregular mappings between subRiemannian manifolds"  
	(with C.-Y. Guo, M. Williams)  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.00891/)]
<!-- -->
* "From homogeneous metric spaces to Lie groups"  
	(with M. G. Cowling, V. Kivioja, E. Le Donne, A. Ottazzi )  
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.09648/)]


### Published papers

0. "The Bernstein problem for Lipschitz intrinsic graphs in the Heisenberg group"  
	(with F. Serra Cassano)  
	_Calculus of Variations and Partial Differential Equations_ **58**  141  (2019)  
	[[Paper](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00526-019-1581-5)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04586/)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/4042/)]
<!-- -->
0. "The Besicovitch covering property in the Heisenberg group revisited"   
	(with S. Rigot)  
	_The Journal of Geometric Analysis_ 2018  
	[[Paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs12220-018-00112-z)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.04502)]
<!-- -->
0. "Some remarks on contact variations in the first Heisenberg group"  
	_Ann. Acad. Sci. Fenn. Math._ 2018  
	[[Paper](http://www.acadsci.fi/mathematica/Vol43/Golo.html)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.07358)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2928/)]
<!-- -->
0. "Regularity properties of spheres in homogeneous groups"  
	(with E. Le Donne)  
	_Trans. Amer. Math. Soc._ 2018  
	[[Paper](http://www.ams.org/journals/tran/2018-370-03/S0002-9947-2017-07038-0/)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.03881)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2794/)]
<!-- -->
0. "Topics in the geometry of non-Riemannian lie groups"  
	PhD Thesis, University of Jyväskylä, 2017  
	[[Online](https://jyx.jyu.fi/handle/123456789/55196)]
<!-- -->
0. "Asymptotic behavior of the Riemannian Heisenberg group and its horoboundary"  
	(with E. Le Donne, A. Sambusetti)  
	_Ann. Mat. Pura Appl. (4)_ 2017  
	[[Paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs10231-016-0615-2)]
	[[arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.00288)]
	[[cvgmt](http://cvgmt.sns.it/paper/2793/)]
<!-- -->
0. "A historical account on characterizations of C^1-manifolds in Euclidean spaces by tangent cones"  
	(with F. Bigolin)  
	_J. Math. Anal. Appl._ 2014  
	[[Paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022247X13009396/)]
<!-- -->
{: reversed="reversed"}

---

Collaborators
=============
<!--
- Francesco Bigolin
- [Michael G. Cowling](https://web.maths.unsw.edu.au/~michaelc/)
- [Moon Duchin](https://mduchin.math.tufts.edu/)
- Chang-Yu Guo
- Ville Kivioja
- [Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/)
- [Alessio Martini](https://sites.google.com/site/mrtnale/)
- [Detlef Müller](http://www.math.uni-kiel.de/analysis/de/mueller/prof.-dr.-detlef-mueller)
- [Alessandro Ottazzi](https://sites.google.com/site/alessandroottazzi/)
- [Séverine Rigot](https://math.unice.fr/~rigot/)
- [Manuel Ritoré](http://www.ugr.es/~ritore/)
- [Andrea Sambusetti](http://www1.mat.uniroma1.it/people/sambusetti/andreas_webpage/home.html)
- [Raul Serapioni](http://www.science.unitn.it/~serapion/)
- [Francesco Serra Cassano](https://webapps.unitn.it/du/it/Persona/PER0004233/Curriculum#INFO)
- Ben Warhurst
- Marshall Williams
-->

Francesco Bigolin  
[Michael G. Cowling](https://web.maths.unsw.edu.au/~michaelc/)  
[Moon Duchin](https://mduchin.math.tufts.edu/)  
Chang-Yu Guo  
Ville Kivioja  
[Enrico Le Donne](https://sites.google.com/site/enricoledonne/)  
[Alessio Martini](https://sites.google.com/site/mrtnale/)  
[Detlef Müller](http://www.math.uni-kiel.de/analysis/de/mueller/prof.-dr.-detlef-mueller)  
[Alessandro Ottazzi](https://sites.google.com/site/alessandroottazzi/)  
[Séverine Rigot](https://math.unice.fr/~rigot/)  
[Manuel Ritoré](http://www.ugr.es/~ritore/)  
[Andrea Sambusetti](http://www1.mat.uniroma1.it/people/sambusetti/andreas_webpage/home.html)  
[Raul Serapioni](http://www.science.unitn.it/~serapion/)  
[Francesco Serra Cassano](https://webapps.unitn.it/du/it/Persona/PER0004233/Curriculum#INFO)  
Ben Warhurst  
Marshall Williams
